Welcome back everyone.
So let's review a little bit of what we've done so far.
We've shown you how to get the data from Cagle and I've shown you how to train your own CNN and the
code is provided in this file.
Cats underscore and underscore.
Dogs though I Python notebook follow by how you actually save it.
That's the last few line of codes and cats and dogs and also how do you load your model.
So let's extend a little bit further.
We've built some really fundamental understanding of how to train your CNN but let's go one step further
one step further is what happens if I don't have enough images.
That's the first question.
The second one is I've got this many images can I actually make or extract more out of it.
The answer is yes you can indeed.
This technique is called data augmentation.
Basically instead of just relying on the only data source that we have which is what we have just now
which is two thousand you can actually create more data from the existing images that you have the technique
that we're going to talk about his core data augmentation is under the image data generator and I have
code that I'm going to show you in a minute but essentially the basic idea here is that you can actually
provide you can perform all of these so-called transformation within.
So let's just start with the so-called documentation if you have a look at this.
It actually provide a few or rather fairly extensive explanation.
Basically you can actually perform from a start feature wise on the score center.
This is a boolean.
OK.
So zero means no one means yes.
And then you have what this does is it is set input mean to zero over the data set feature wise and
then on and on it goes to some of the specific one that I want to talk about is rotation range.
All right.
Degree range for random rotations.
So this rotation basically means that you rotated 10 degrees 20 degrees all the other way minus 10 minus
20.
You can set the range yourself.
The next one is the width shift range.
What this is doing is that it shift the images right.
And the flow here a fraction of total with less than 1 or pixels if it's graded than 1.
So it allows you to shift the images level right.
OK.
So that's the with shifting You can also perform the height shifting upward down or if it's less than
1 then as a fraction of his more than 1 is how many pixels you under shift and then you follow by sheer
range the sheer intensity so the sheer angle in counterclockwise directions in degrees.
So let me just show you this.
Let me just Google OK.
So image Cher ring OK.
This is what image sharing actually means so let's borrow this
OK.
You can see this are the examples of sharing.
So you can like instead of a cube you share it.
This is kind of like I don't know what you call it x2 trapezoid.
And then this is a more example of sharing.
OK.
So that's really the basic idea of sharing of images.
Again what we're doing here is really simple transformation so that the image is not the same as what
you have for a generally.
And allows the CNN to learn all of these from the CNN perspective.
These are just new data set.
And indeed it is because the angle is a bit different or spin should or been zoom in or the pixel has
been shift up or down.
What you really want to do using these data augmentation technique is to actually forces the CNN to
learn the general feature rather than learn pixel by pixel or memorizing the pixel by pixel.
There's two more that I want to mention horizontal flip and also vertical flip basically flipping the
image either horizontally or vertically.
Right.
So those are the few that I want to touch on.
So now let's go into our codes within Jupiter lab.
All right.
So we start with this is our original cats and dogs.
OK.
And I also want to cover the other part which is the data augmentation.
Now before we actually go into the data augmentation I've done a little bit more here in terms of the
the code itself.
Let me just highlight the difference.
All of these are the same.
OK.
So importing of data to source data these are all exactly the same unchanged at OK so processing is
the same in terms of the CNN architecture is exactly the same.
What then is different.
OK I want to highlight to you this part here.
Right.
So if you look at this this is the portion that's different you will remember when we were looking at
the image data generated previously we don't have this portion there's no rotation range there's no
with shift range there's no height shift range there's no sheer range zoom range horizontal flipping.
Now this is application of data augmentation in reality now.
So everything else is exactly the same.
And the only difference are these you can say six line of code Yep six line of codes.
By the way just one word a warning you don't ever perform data augmentation with your validation data
you don't.
OK.
The only with the training data because you won the CNN to learn.
So if you look at this these are all that were changed.
Nothing else changed.
The difference now also is that we're running hundreds epochs instead of 30.
I guess I want to run a longer epochs to illustrate to you what actually happened.
OK so let's go down to these so-called performance everything else the same.
So this is the two key chart that we used to to assess the performance of our model.
If we look carefully What do you see.
Let me just put side by side the previous one which is 1 or 1.
Cats and dogs
killing me stick it side by side so you can actually see.
OK.
Let's go all the way to the bottom.
Notice that previously the training and trade the validation accuracy plateau and doesn't extend beyond
80 percent.
And if you compare this to the training and validation accuracy I noticed that the validation continues
to climb even at 100 epoch.
It continues to climb and the actual accuracy is actually going up in tandem with our training data.
And this is the key important lesson here is that did data augmentation forces to CNN to learn general
features to actually focus on some of the key characteristics of the image so that it actually can generalize.
In fact you'll notice that the green is exactly which is the validation it's generally higher than the
training data.
All right so the validation data or the performance accuracy is generally better than the training accuracy
and that's really what you want to see is that this is not an example of a fitting neither is an example
of under fitting.
It just shows you that there are more room to grow.
Likewise with the loss is exactly the same conclusion the validation lost continue to draw and the blue
dot which is the training loss continue to drop they are going in tandem.
So this is not a sign of over fitting at all.
And this is encouraging.
Reason for data augmentation is to do precisely that so that our data or our model can continue to learn
the general features and perform better out of sample.
OK.
So all right I'm gonna stop there and the next video I'm going to show you some examples of WoW of images
of data images that have been augmented meaning with perform data augmentation so that you can get a
general sense of what what it has done.